Welcome to Plaro's podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the Pluros podcast. This
is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. We're continuing
on our teaching preservation in the
newness of life. And we really want to
get to how we walk in preservation, but
we have to make some emphasis on certain
things that we've already seen. Now, you
recall that we are looking at everything
we are studying in the light of God's
purpose, which is the very reason why
God made us. And that's the central
theme of scripture. God didn't make us
just to exist for the sake of it. He
made us to walk with him and carry out
the assignment he has given us in his
purpose for our lives. But we have seen
that to fulfill God's purpose, we need
to grow. And what we are to grow in is
the new life, the new creation that we
are now in Christ. So we are to grow in
all the realities that the Lord has
given unto us, has caused us to be by
virtue of the work of redemption that he
has done. In understanding this new life
that we have, we have seen there is
healing available in that life. There is
also preservation. We are presented as
available in that life. But we had to
make the case by asking the question,
what is this life exactly? You recall
that we said this life is what God
offered to man at the beginning and that
we'll be fully consumated at the end.
But then despite the fact that that life
will be fully consumated at the end,
there is that which is available to us
right now today. And we can tell what is
available today by finding out the
things that are exclusive to the end.
And as far as scripture goes, there are
two things we are told are exclusive to
the end. Number one is the immortality
of our bodies. And the second one is the
incorruption of matter or the cosmos. So
whilst we cannot have immortality today
nor incorruption in the cosmos, we can
have healing because we saw that the
very same spirit that wouldffect
immortality in our body already works
right now to effect healing in our
bodies. Right? The very same spirit that
willffect immortality is found active
today. We saw that from the ministry of
the Lord Jesus through the church and
presently available to us today. The
working of the spirit to effect healings
in our bodies. Immortality will be
affected by the initiative of God or we
could say the initiative of the Lord
Jesus himself at the end. What about
preservation? We saw preservation as
available in the new life by seeing the
fact that incorruption would also be
affected by the spirit. The deliverance
of the cosmos would happen alongside the
immortality of our body at the end of
the age. Recall Romans chapter 8. See
that Romans and chapter 8 and verse 21.
Now in Romans 8 and verse 11 he had told
us but if the spirit of him that raised
Jesus Christ from the dead dwells in you
he that raised Jesus Christ from the
dead will give life to your mortal
bodies by spirit that is in you. So we
are going to receive immortality by the
spirit. But in verse 20, we are told
that the creation was subject to
futility not willingly but because of
him who subjected it in hope because the
creation itself will be delivered from
the bondage of corruption. So we are
seeing here that the cosmos the physics
chemistry biology of our world will be
delivered from the present bondage of
corruption that it is under. It was
subjected to this state of bondage.
There are several texts to go to to
examine how the creation came to be
subject to bondage. There are
explanations to make in reconciling that
with maybe natural observable data, but
that's not our focus here. There are
things we have done on that on gospel
answer series and we'll still do more on
the website as well when we get to the
critical version of gospel answers. But
for now, our concern is the creation is
under the bondage of corruption. It will
be delivered when it says into the
glorious liberty of the children of God.
So he's saying at the very time that we
are set free from the hold of sin and
death in our bodies as we have already
been set free in our spirit, it's at
that time the creation itself as well
will be delivered. So the same spirit
that affects that in our body is the
very power of the spirit that will
effect the same at the end for creation
or the cosmos as well. Now that said, it
brings us to the question if
incorruption is not available to the
cosmos. Now, what is available? And we
have run through several texts to
establish the fact that preservation is
available. So, for sake of summary, I'm
going to mention Matthew chapter 8 23
downwards to 26 and where the Lord
calmed the temptous wind in Matthew
8:23. Now, when he got into a boat, his
disciples followed him and suddenly a
great tempest arose on the sea. So the
boat was covered with waves. Then they
woke the Lord up, saying, "Lord, save
us. We are perishing." He said to them,
"Why are you fearful, oh ye of little
faith, and he arose and rebuked the
winds and the seas, and there was a
great calm?" He awoke and he rebuked the
winds and the seas. He was speaking to
material things. He was speaking to the
cosmos. And he was bringing order or elf
back into a chaotic world. The world is
already corrupt, but it can have times
of sickness and disease that can be
tamed. Just like our bodies are mortals,
susceptible to sickness and disease, and
we can believe for God's healing power
and walk in divine health. Now, the same
way the corrupt cosmos will have moments
of being sick in different ways and
different forms and we can believe for
preservation, for deliverance and miss
those, we should also mention we can
believe for preservation and deliverance
from human inspired evil. And it's
something I'll get into today as I'm
establishing a very important detail as
well as we proceed. Now another instance
we can look at where preservation and
deliverance was wrought which we have
already seen in earlier episodes was
when the Lord was walking on water the
winds became boisterous yet he did not
fear he did not sink. He saved Peter and
he questioned him for doubting showing
that he could have walked in faith just
like he told disciples why are you
fearful you have little to faith he's
saying they could have taken
responsibility on their end to walk in
what is available in the power of the
spirit in the newness of life so we are
not called to make excuses we are called
to take advantage of that which is
available to us in the new life also we
notice in Matthew 21 the Lord spoke to
the fig tree just like we saw in Mark
11. That's another instance of him
taking authority over the cosmos in
situations or circumstances where he was
sick. Now, another important instance we
pointed out was Paul in Acts chapter 27
where he knew by the spirit there was
going to be a tempest. I believe a storm
and then he spoke that to the leader of
the sale but they did not take heed. And
later by the angel of the lord he spoke
to them that they were going to be
preserved their lives will be preserved
but there will be a destruction of their
goods. So we see clearly instances of
preservation happening by the power of
god showing us that though the world
remains corrupt in instances of sickness
of the cosmos in that corrupt state
there can be preservation. The role of
angels is very important when it comes
to this truth of preservation in the
newness of life. We saw the Lord
mentioned in Matthew chapter 26 that he
could have prayed the father and have 12
legions of angels to preserve him from
what was going to happen in this
crucifixion. But it had to be done that
the scriptures may be fulfilled. Also in
Matthew chapter 4, we see where the
enemy Satan spoke saying that God had
made the promise to him as a person as
the son of God, but by extension to
people of faith or the covenant that he
will give his angels charge over them,
and they shall bear them up in their
hands, lest they dash their foot against
a stone. But he was actually tempting
the Lord to walk in the flesh under the
guise of exercising authority in a
promise God has given. But nothing takes
away from that truth that there is a
promise of preservation in redemption.
There's a promise of preservation in the
newness of life or that God gives us by
his power. Now I just want to make a bit
of an emphasis on the role of angels in
this preservation that we have in the
newness of life. It comes up again and
again. You can see Genesis chapter 48,
Jacob was speaking about the work of
God's power over his life throughout his
days. In Genesis chapter 48 and verse1
15, he blessed Joseph and said, "God
before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac
walked, the God who has fed me all my
days long." We'll come back to that
fact, the God who has fed me all my days
long. But I want you to notice the next
statement. It says, "The angel who has
redeemed me from all evil." And when we
see this dual role of speaking about
what God is doing and then in the same
breath speaking about an angel through
it is done. There's much to be said
there theologically but that's not our
concern as much in this particular
teaching. The point is that there is a
working of God via the ministry of
angels that carries out preservation. We
can see it has other roles. He said he
has fed me all my days long. Of course,
it's not saying he always brought food
to me, but he has, you might want to use
the word he has provided for me all my
days long. Some might want to use the
word prospered, but we must put it in
proper context. And we're going to do
that in another teaching. He said, the
angel who has redeemed me from all evil.
So, there is that expectation they had
as well as reality they walked in of God
preserving them and missed all their
experiences, all their journeys. It was
also a promise that we see God make to
the children of Israel as his people.
Exodus chapter 23 and verse 20. Behold,
I send an angel before you to keep you
in the way and to bring you into the
place which are prepared for you. So is
to keep you, preserve you as you go
until he brings you to the destination
you should get to. So we can believe
that for ourselves that in our walk in
God's purpose, we are kept through that
journey to the fulfillment of God's
purpose for our lives. We should expect
preservation. Another text is Exodus
23:23. For my angel will go before you
and bring you into the and he mentions
the place that we're going to go to and
get victory. We can expect preservation
in the newness of life. Also Psalm 34
and verse 7, we speak about the role of
angels as preserving. Psalm 34 and verse
7 is an important text to be ignored
here.
Psalm 34:7 it says, "The angel of the
Lord encamps
all around those who fear him." So God's
preserving power carried out via the
ministry of angels is around us. The
angel of the Lord encamps
around those who fear him and delivers
them. Okay. Also Psalm 35 and verse 5,
David is talking about those who opposed
him and then he put his faith in God.
I'll read from verse four. Let those be
put to shame and brought to dishonor who
seek after my life. Let those be turned
back and brought to confusion who plot
my earth. Let them be like shaft before
the wind and let the angel of the Lord
chase them. Let their way be dark and
slippery. Let the angel of the Lord
pursue them. So there's a lot to unpack
about the understanding of the angel of
the Lord as a singular concept versus
the multiple concept of angels. But it
remains the same truth that God via the
ministry of angels preserves us. All
right? It says let the angel of the Lord
chase them. In fact, verse six will say,
"Let their way be dark and slippery. Let
the angel of the Lord pursue them."
There is an expectation of preservation
by the ministry of angels. This is why
we will see often it this truth
mentioned that people are abiding under
the wings of the Almighty. But that
understanding is taken from the temple.
And in the temple description, God is on
the mercy seat with the two cherubs on
both sides with their wings covering. So
we are dwelling with God or in God's
arms or in his safety under the shadow
of those wings. You will see Psalm 91
and verse one. He that dwells in the
secret place of the most high abides
under the shadow of the almighty.
Verse four will say he shall cover you
with his feathers under his wings you
shall take refuge. There are so many
texts like that speaking about our
safety under God's wings that we cannot
get to here. Then verse 11 of Psalm 91,
he shall give his angels charge over you
to keep you in all your ways. In their
hands they shall bear you up. We have
read Psalm 91 about twice now. So we are
not going back to that. You'll see all
kinds of hevils mentioned and God's
preserving power in that regard. Now
I'll mention just one last text about
the role of angels and preservation or
deliverance. Acts 12 when Peter was
taken captive. Acts 12 and verse 5.
Peter was therefore kept in prison but
constant prayer was offered to God for
him by the church. Something then
happened. All right. Something happened.
Verse six. And when Herod was about to
bring him out that night Peter was
sleeping. So they had been praying for
days. And now the night before Peter was
sleeping bound with two chains between
the two soldiers and the guards before
the door were keeping the prison. Now
behold an angel of the Lord stood by him
and a light shone in the prison. And he
struck Peter by the side and raised him
up saying, "Arise quickly." So we see
Peter experienced a deliverance by the
ministry of angels. Arise quickly. And
the angel said to him, "Guard yourself,
tie on your sandals." We can see an
example of Lot in Genesis and chapter
19. Also experiencing deliverance by the
ministry of angels from Sodom and
Gomorrah. So much to cover on that. So
much that can be said on that. But one
thing is the word of God is replete with
emphatic mention of God's power
preserving God's power delivering. And
the question is how do we walk in this
preserving power of God available in the
newness of life? We'll see what the Lord
taught. We'll see the several narrative
and examples that we can also induce
from. We'll see clear deductions we can
make as well from the things that the
Lord and the apostles taught us about
how to walk in preservation in the
newness of life. On that note, God bless
you. fulfill God's purpose. See you on
the next one.
>> We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about how
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_HOG.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.